RimTTRPG/World/Items/Turrets.md, before:

Turrets
---
#items 

Turrets are defensive emplacements which can be constructed, disassembled, or packed up and relocated. Different turrets require different levels of Construction skill to construct or disassemble. Mortars are capable of firing over low structures such as barricades and walls, and may strike roofs. Turrets operate like stationary ranged weapons.

##### Portable
Portable turrets require one action to pack up, and one action to place.

| Name | Damage | Range | Type | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Mini-Turret | 11 | 25 | Sharp | 300 |
| Mortar | 50 | 500 | Various | 450 |


##### Emplaced
Emplaced turrets cannot be moved during combat, and require a strong foundation to support them.

| Name | Damage | Range | Type | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Autocannon Turret | 25 | 33 | Sharp | 1270 |
| Uranium Slug Turret | 50 | 45 | Sharp | 1445 |


##### Mortar Shells
Mortars require shells to fire.

| Name | Damage | Type | Radius | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Explosive Shell | 50 | Sharp | 3 | 55 |
| EMP Shell | 50 | EMP | 9 | 55 |
| Incendiary Shell | 10 | Burn | 5 | 55 |
| Smoke Shell | 5 | Blunt | 8 | 55 |

Commit message:

vault backup: 2021-11-03 00:23:19
Affected files:
RimTTRPG/.obsidian/workspace
RimTTRPG/Rules/Character Creation.md
RimTTRPG/Rules/Skills.md
RimTTRPG/World/Items/Ammunition.md
RimTTRPG/World/Items/Turrets.md
RimTTRPG/World/Items/Utility Items.md

RimTTRPG/World/Items/Turrets.md, after:

Turrets
---
#items 

Turrets are defensive emplacements which can be constructed, disassembled, or packed up and relocated. Different turrets require different levels of Construction skill to construct or disassemble. Mortars are capable of firing over low structures such as barricades and walls, and may strike roofs. Turrets operate like stationary ranged weapons, scaling off of Shooting skill.

##### Portable
Portable turrets require one action to pack up, and one action to place.

| Name | Damage | Range | Type | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Mini-Turret | 11 | 25 | Sharp | 300 |
| Mortar | 50 | 500 | Various | 450 |


##### Emplaced
Emplaced turrets cannot be moved during combat, and require a strong foundation to support them.

| Name | Damage | Range | Type | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Autocannon Turret | 25 | 33 | Sharp | 1270 |
| Uranium Slug Turret | 50 | 45 | Sharp | 1445 |


##### Mortar Shells
Mortars require shells to fire. Smoke shells have the same effect on target as a [[Utility Items#^c23cfc|Smokepop Pack]].

| Name | Damage | Type | Radius | Value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Explosive Shell | 50 | Sharp | 3 | 55 |
| EMP Shell | 50 | EMP | 9 | 55 |
| Incendiary Shell | 10 | Burn | 5 | 55 |
| Smoke Shell | 5 | Blunt | 8 | 55 |
